In today’s video, we will run through the
satirical horror movie American Psycho from
2000, where a wealthy New York City investment
banking executive, Patrick Bateman, hides
his alternate psychopathic ego from his co-workers
and friends as he delves deeper into his violent,
hedonistic fantasies.
Spoilers ahead! You have been warned. Now
like the video and subscribe to the channel
if you enjoy this video.
Patrick Bateman is a 27-year-old investment
banker in a wall street firm of Pierce & Pierce.
He is a rich and successful man in people’s
eyes. But Bateman hides a big secret about
his life. The movie starts when we see him
and his associates in a fancy restaurant.
They are talking about their co-worker Paul
Allen who happens to be dining a few tables
away. When the bill arrives, all of them flaunt
their business cards and call the $570 bill
reasonable. The group then leaves for a club.
The following day we see Patrick in his lavish
apartment. He narrates his life to us. According
to him, he likes to take care of himself by
eating nutritious food and exercising regularly.
Patrick also explains his morning routine
in detail. He likes to use various beauty
products to keep himself young and fresh.
That day, Patrick goes to his office, and
after dismissing most of his appointments,
he tells his assistant to wear a dress and
heels to the office. At night, Patrick and
his fiance, Evelyn, are in a restaurant with
their friends. He assumes that Evelyn is having
an affair with a guy named Timothy Bryce.
But he doesn’t care because he is also having
an affair with Evelyn’s best friend, Courtney
Rawlinson. Courtney is engaged to one of Paul’s
coworkers, Luis.
Later, he calls Courtney and convinces her
to go out to dinner with him. She is high
on drugs, so he orders the food for her. The
next morning Patrick is in the conference
room of his office. Paul Allen, his co-worker,
mistakes him for a person named Marcus, but
Patrick goes along with it. After Allen leaves,
Patrick shows off his business card to his
colleagues. The group starts comparing it
to their own. Patrick’s card is the best
in the lot until one of his colleagues shows
them Allen’s. He is petrified to see Allen’s
card better than his.
On his way back home, he comes across a homeless
man and offers him money. As they are talking,
he takes a knife out of his briefcase and
stabs the man. He also kills the dog beside
him. Beneath his lavish and successful life,
Patrick Bateman is a serial killer. He has
no emotions except for greed, and his mask
of insanity is about to slip. He meets Allen
again at Evelyn’s Christmas party. He still
thinks Patrick is Marcus. They plan to meet
at a restaurant for dinner the following day.
Allen is already at the restaurant when Patrick
arrives. They talk as Allen gets progressively
drunk. He also calls Patrick a dork, thinking
he is talking to Marcus. After dinner, they
leave for Packris’s apartment. While Allen
sits on the couch, Patrick prepares to kill
him, but he is too drunk to understand. He
plays the song “Hip to be square,” brings
out a mirror-polished ax, and kills Allen
with it. Blood splatters everywhere as he
hits him with his ax several times.
Patrick then sits down to smoke a cigar casually
in front of Allen’s corpse. He wraps the
corpse in an overnight bag and drags it outside.
He meets an old friend on his way, but without
losing his cool, he dismisses them. Patrick
takes Allen’s body to his apartment. His
plan is to fake Allen going on a trip, so
no one thinks his absence is suspicious. To
pose this, he packs some of Allen’s clothes
and leaves a message that says he is on a
business trip to London on the answering machine.
Patrick is in his office the following day
when detective Donald Kimball comes to interview
him about Allen’s disappearance. Later,
Patrick brings two prostitutes, Christine
and Sabrina, to his apartment and has sex
with them. Late at night, they ask him if
they can leave, but he has other plans. He
takes out several knives and weapons to harm
their body. This arouses him sexually. The
girls leave in the morning with several injuries.
Patrick is hanging out with his friends in
a bar when Courtney’s boyfriend Luis shows
them his new business card. It is better than
Patrick’s as well. This angers him, so he
goes after him into the bathroom and tries
to strangle him to death. But as Luis notices
him, he mistakes the gesture as a sexual advance
and tells Patrick that he has always loved
him. This surprises Patrick, so he quickly
leaves the restaurant.
Detective Kimball is at Patrick’s office
the next day. He asks him several questions
about his last meeting with Allen. They decide
to meet for lunch in a week. That night he
is at Courtney's place. She seems distressed,
but he doesn’t notice it. Later, he does
drugs at a club with his associates. The following
day, he invites his assistant Jean to dinner
and asks her where she wants to go. Jean answers
Dorsia but is ready to go anywhere he takes
her. Patrick calls Dorsia and pretends to
book a table. He asks her to meet him at his
apartment at seven for drinks. Jean agrees.
At night, they meet at his place. While they
are talking, he points at her with a nail
gun from behind. But she doesn't notice. Just
then, he gets a voice message from Evelyn.
Jean realizes that Evelyn and Patrick are
still engaged, so she asks him if she should
leave. Patrick agrees and tells her that something
terrible might happen to her if she stays.
The next day, he meets detective Donald for
lunch. The detective tells him that there
were no suspects, so the case is called off.
Relieved, he goes to pick up the prostitute
Christine again. She refuses to come because
she had to go to the ER last time, but Patrick
convinces her with money. He also invites
another girl named Elizabeth. He takes them
both to Allen’s apartment instead of his.
He drugs the girls’ wine and convinces them
to have sex. While they are at it, Christine
notices him trying to kill Elizabeth and makes
a run for it. She tries to escape but comes
across several dead bodies of girls hidden
in different parts of the house. Now, Christine
is terrified. Patrick comes after her with
a chainsaw. As she falls, he bites her legs
like a maniac. She somehow manages to run
out of the room. A naked and bloodied Patrick
chases her with a chainsaw. She runs down
the stairs, and when Partick feels like he
cannot reach her in time, he drops the chainsaw
on her, killing her instantly.
The following day, Patrick is with Evelyn
in a restaurant, where he breaks off their
engagement. On his way back home, he uses
an ATM and sees a cat in the street beside
it. Taking his gun out, he is about to shoot
it when an old lady stops him. So, instead
of the cat, he shoots her. However, this time,
the police are around. Patrick tries to flee
from the scene but is stopped by the police.
This causes them to get in a shootout. He
blows up the police car killing all of the
policemen, and quickly runs away but enters
the wrong building. When he notices his mistake,
he kills the building receptionist and, on
his way out, kills a janitor too.
He then runs to an office that he believes
is his. A police helicopter is looking for
him outside. Frantically, he calls his lawyer
Harold Carnes and leaves a message on Harold’s
answering machine. In the message, he confesses
his crime and reveals that he has killed almost
forty people, including several hookers, homeless
people, his old girlfriend, and others. He
has eaten some of their brains as well. Most
of his murders are documented in tapes. Patrick
also tells him to meet him at Harry’s bar.
The next day, he goes to Allen’s apartment
again to find it completely clean and empty.
A real estate agent is in the apartment who
tells him that it doesn't belong to Paul Allen
and asks him to leave. He goes downstairs
and calls Jean from a telephone booth. She
notices the franticness in his voice, but
he dismisses her and tells her he won't be
at the office this afternoon. Jean gets suspicious
of him, so she goes through his drawers and
finds his journal. Meanwhile, Patrick goes
to a restaurant with his friends again, where
he finds lawyer Harold. He goes to him to
talk about his confession from last night.
However, Harold mistakes him for another friend
and thinks his confession is a joke. Patrick
desperately tries to make him believe that
he killed Paul Allen, but Harold refuses and
tells him that he had dinner with Allen in
London just days ago.
On the other hand, a horrified Jean finds
detailed drawings of Patrick’s crimes in
his journal. After talking to Harold, a confused
Patrick goes back to his friends and continues
chatting. The movie ends as Patrick’s voiceover
tells us that he did not get the punishment
that he was secretly hoping for. His confession
to the lawyer had made him feel better, but
now, that too was meaningless.
Thanks for watching! Make sure to like the
video if you enjoyed it and subscribe to the
channel to see more of these movie summaries.